Welcome back.
Let's look at the first of the two types of searching or traversing a tree or a graph.
It's called breadth first search.
Try saying that five times really fast.
The way breadth first search works is that you start with the root note and move left to right across
the second level then move left to right across the third level.
And so on and so forth.
You just keep going from left to right left to right level by level and you keep going until you find
the know you're looking for or the tree and let's have a look at another visual breadth first search
works like this.
We go to the root node.
Then the second level the third level and then finally the fourth level you can see here how they're
numbered going one by one One by one.
Now we're going to code breath first search and understand how it works.
But I want to mention that breath first search uses additional memory because it is necessary to track
the child notes of all the nodes on a given level while searching that level.
This means that we need to track every node and its children in order and we're going to talk about
some of those implications when we code breath for search and also look at the pros and cons compared
to the other kind that first.
But let's go to our code for a quick example.
We have here the tree that we created in our tree data structure section a binary search tree that creates
a tree for us that looks like this Ninus a root node have four and twenty one six fifteen and 170.
If we did breadth first search what would you think the order would be if we wanted to convert that
into a list while we'd first visit nine.
Then we'd visit the second level for then 20 and then we visit the third level again going from left
to right.
We'd visit one then 6 then 15 then 170 and using breadth first search we're able to create this list.
Let's have a look at the second way of traversing a tree or a graph and that is depth first search.
Let's have a look.